as winter rolls into Gaza storm clouds
dump yet more misery on its residents
some 20,000 homes here were destroyed
and 880,000 damaged in this Summer's
conflict with Israel and until now few
repairs have been carried
out months this is I've come back to see
Abdul Karim Abu Ahmed an English teacher
we were hoping that they will
immediately
rebuild our houses but after 3 months we
feel now very frust rated they promised
us they will give us uh money to pay for
uh renting uh flat they didn't uh give
us concrete they didn't give us
equipment to rebuild so nothing
happened but in just the past few days
the way waiting has come to an end for
some a deal brokered by the UN Works
around Israel's blockade of Gaza so here
at this building firm there are some
signs of progress these men are waiting
to have their names checked against a
computerized system they then get a chit
of paper they can bring over to the
warehouse and exchange it for the bags
of cement that they're entitled
to Israel wants guarantees militants
won't take these Goods to rebuild
tunnels they can use used for
crossborder attacks so this firm has
special security clearance the cements
monitored to make sure it doesn't fall
into the wrong hands but the pace of
deliveries is very slow the manager says
reconstruction is now years behind
schedule we'll need a decade to rebuild
Gaza if the system continues like this
he tells
me the huge scale of Destruction means
it's taking longer than expected to
assess all the damage un officials also
blame Palestinian politics for delays in
reconstruction and say ultimately Israel
needs to lift its tight border
restrictions their efforts can only
achieve so much the mechanism is a
significant step it's important to make
sure that the families that were
affected by the conflict can rebuild
their homes it is not a replacement for
the lifting of the blockade I mean if
there's going to be peace and security
if it's going to be a stable Gaza uh
then the blockade needs to be lifted
for now there are only temporary
solutions being offered to gaza's deep
political problems that leaves many here
facing a long wait to return home and an
uncertain future yoland Nell BBC news
Gaza